[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're not gonna deal
too much about the input output thing
from here on will do deal lightly with it.
But what, I want to do is I want to
go back to you can switch it back
to console.log because that's a little bit
easier a little bit more standard for us.
But what if we wanted to except some form
of input we didn't want to go all the way
down trying to write our own readln
loops or other things like that.
But what if we wanted to accept
some input from the command line
via command line parameters?
So for example, let's say we wanted
to pull in the name to say hello to.
So rather than printing out Hello World,
I could take out the Hello part and
I could say name.
Now that's gonna be a need to
be a variable that I declare and
what is the value that
I'm going to declare.
So what if I wanted to pull the first
argument off of the command line
that was provided to my program and
pull that in as my name.
Again we go back to this process extension
that's been provided to JavaScript,
it's an automatic global and
we can say argv.
That's a very C style way of
thinking about our arg variables,
which is an array and the zero
position is gonna be the node command.
The one position is gonna be our one.js,
so we want the two position,
process.argv[2], that will be our name.
Okay, now save that file,
it's a complaining runner.
[COUGH] All right, we save that file,
we come back to our command line.
We type in node 1.js,
when we don't print anything.
It's gonna say, Hello undefined
because there is no argv[2].
But if we try our program again and
we say world as that parameter,
now it says Hello World.
Some of you that have a little more
experience with you may be entirely bored
at this point you're like my god
he's doing console.log status
this is incredibly boring.
I promise, we're building ourselves up,
we wanna make sure that everybody feels
confident with how the basic
environment works.
Most people teach you node by just
throwing in a whole bunch of frameworks.
The very first thing they do is teach
you to drop in express or whatever.
I think it's important to
understand the actual mechanics of
the environment or working with.
So that's why we start at the beginning
but I promise we'll get to more
interesting stuff as we go along.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
we've been able to pull in ourselves
something from an argument.
Now, there's all kinds of
different ways that people use
arguments on the command line.
There's the standard UNIX style like and
so forth and those sorts of
things if I print it like that.
Obviously, it's not doing any kind of
parsing of what my command line is.
Now you can manually do those things but
that's not the kind of thing
people wanna reinvent.
So the first thing that we're
gonna do is learn our first
sort of helper module that we can pull in.
And I'm gonna teach you about modules, so
I'm gonna pull in something it's called.
I just forgot the name of it,
let me check real quick.
>> Kyle Simpson: Solutions/node_modules,
what was it called?
Minimist, I can't remember what it's
called, all right, we're going to pull in.
I'm going to call it args and
I'm going to require minimist,
now before you are able to run this
program we're going to have to install it.
Those of you that are here in person
you might want to at this point if you
don't have the node modules directory
that I provided in the solutions folder.
You might want to copy that
over into your main folder so
that you already have these installed.
You can optionally do an npm install but
if you're having network troubles,
you can copy those over.
If you're on the live stream,
you're gonna,
I'll show you the installer in a moment.
What we require in this minimist module,
and
I'm kind of hand waving cuz it's kind of
magical right now what that even means.
But we're gonna require
in a minimist project,
what it does is it automatically will
parse our arguments list for us.
And pull out stuff like those parameter
names that we're providing in
those various different styles.
So the minimist
project when we require it returns us
a function which we can immediately call.
You kind of saw some of that before
when we were returning functions that
we could call.
We could immediately call that and
what we want to do is provide
it our process.argv list.
But let's go ahead and remove the first
two parameters because nobody cares
about the node in the one.js part.
So we're going to slice off
the first two parameters and
provide just the process start on v.
The other thing I'm going to do is
I'm gonna provide an optional list
to minimist which the only
thing I really care about
telling it to do is I wanna
tell that in the string.
That I want to treat the name property
as a string parameter rather
than as a boolean prime, okay.
It won't make a terrible amount of sense
why we're doing that right at this moment,
but just take my word for it.
Okay, so
I've got this minimist thing now and
rather than saying name
equals process.argv.
I can now say name equals args.name,
now how is that gonna work.
Let's come back to our command line make
sure that you have
the minimist installed so
inside of my directory.
I don't have node modules installed yet,
so I could do npm install minimist.
That's if you don't have node modules yet
or if you don't have it installed.
You just say npm install minimist, and
when you hit Enter it should install it.
To save bandwidth here at this place
where we're hosting the event,
I've already got it.
So I'm just going to copy my
entire node modules directory from
the solutions folder that
I've already installed.
Just copy over all of those
to my current directory,
so if I go into that node modules
directory and I look at what's there.
You'll notice that there are several
modules that I've already installed
one of them being the minimist
one that we care about.
So we'll leave the rest of those
alone we'll come back to the rest of
those later.
But right now I should now
be able to say node 1.js.
What happens if I provide
no parameter whatsoever?
We get our Hello undefined but
now what happens if I do that node 1.js,
but I gave it that name equals world
syntax on the parameter command line?
Remember before,
it didn't do any parsing of it.
Now when we do it it's able to have
parsed out the command line for
us.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
there's a whole bunch,
you can read the documentation.
There's a whole bunch of other
syntaxes that it supports and
there's some configuration options or
whatever.
But it's a real simple first blush
without us doing hardly anything.
We now have the basic things in place for
us to handle,
writing command line programs in node,
and that's the first kind of mind
expander that I wanna give you.
Node is not just about
writing web servers.
In fact, node is perhaps really pretty
powerful in terms of replacing like.
Bash scripting or Perl or
things like that.
I've just recently I kind of observed
that I used to open up a bash script
file whenever I wanted to do something
very common like deleting files or
renaming or things like that.
I'd throw open up a bash script and I'd
throw a find with an arc in a set in there
and I'd give myself
a little bash script file.
I now find myself equally as often
opening up a JavaScript file and
making a node program out of it.
In fact I'll show you
something interesting.
This is another thing that most that not a
lot of people have we won't leave this in
but for right now,
I'll show you that you can do.
The typical bash style annotation
by saying let me make sure I get
this exactly right cuz sometimes I forget
the syntax so let me cheat real quick.
Make sure I don't get it wrong.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: If you put this on
the first line,
usr/bin/env and then say node,
you've turned this file
into an executable script.
In the same way we do a shell bash
scripts where we would put bash but
we're saying we want node to run our code.
So now I can go back to my command
line and instead of saying node 1.js,
I can change the execution bits that I
make by 1.js an executable script file.
I can say 700 1.js and
now I can say 1.js itself --name=World.
And invoked node for me, so I can create
command line programs that look and
feel a lot like dash script or another
pearl scripts and things like that.
And I don't even have to have
the .js extension on that.
I could name the file just one or delete
all or whatever kind of commands you want.
So node is capable of providing that for
you and as you get more familiar with
working with JavaScript on the server.
You may find yourself wanting to just,
I'm already writing JavaScript I'll just
write this script also in JavaScript.
So I just wanted to give you a couple
of quick ways that you can use
JavaScript for it.
We'll go ahead and take that out for
now because that's not the plan to use it
that way for the rest of our exercises but
I just wanted to give you a sense
that was pretty easy to do.